README.md, before:

# Curio [![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-738ADB)](https://discord.gg/vjpSMSJR8r)

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/urban-toolkit/curio/blob/main/logo.png?raw=true" alt="Curio Logo" height="200"/></br>
  [<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.06139">Paper</a>] | [<a href="https://urbantk.org/curio">Website</a>]
</div>

## Overview

Curio is a framework for collaborative urban visual analytics that uses a dataflow model with multiple abstraction levels (code, grammar, GUI elements) to facilitate collaboration across the design and implementation of visual analytics components. The framework allows experts to intertwine preprocessing, managing, and visualization stages while tracking provenance of code and visualizations.

**Curio: A Dataflow-Based Framework for Collaborative Urban Visual Analytics**  
*Gustavo Moreira, Maryam Hosseini, Carolina Veiga, Lucas Alexandre, Nico Colaninno, Daniel de Oliveira, Nivan Ferreira, Marcos Lage, Fabio Miranda*  
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics ( Volume: 31, Issue: 1, January 2025)  
Paper: [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1109/TVCG.2024.3456353)], [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.06139)]

<div align="center">
  <video src="https://github.com/urban-toolkit/curio/assets/2387594/6d29bda8-5e94-4496-a4ae-fd55adff024f" />
</div>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/urban-toolkit/curio/blob/main/banner.jpg?raw=true" alt="Curio Use Cases" width="1000"/>
</p>

This project is part of the [Urban Toolkit ecosystem](https://urbantk.org), which includes [Curio](https://github.com/urban-toolkit/curio/) and [UTK](https://github.com/urban-toolkit/utk). Curio is a framework for collaborative urban visual analytics that uses a dataflow model with multiple abstraction levels to facilitate collaboration across the design and implementation of visual analytics components. UTK is a flexible and extensible visualization framework that enables the easy authoring of web-based visualizations through a new high-level grammar specifically built with common urban use cases in mind. 

## Key features
- Provenance-aware dataflow
- Modularized and collaborative visual analytics
- Support for 2D and 3D maps
- Linked data-driven interactions  
- Integration with [UTK](https://urbantk.org) and [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/)

## Usage and contributions
For detailed instructions on how to use the project, please see the [usage](docs/USAGE.md) document. A set of examples can be found [here](https://github.com/urban-toolkit/curio/tree/main/docs). If you'd like to contribute, see the [contributions](docs/CONTRIBUTIONS.md) document for guidelines. For questions, join [UTK's Discord](https://discord.gg/vjpSMSJR8r) server.



## Core team

Gustavo Moreira (UIC)  
Leonardo Ferreira (UIC)  
[Maryam Hosseini](https://www.maryamhosseini.me/) (UC Berkeley)  
[Daniel de Oliveira](http://www2.ic.uff.br/~danielcmo/) (UFF)  
[Nivan Ferreira](https://www.cin.ufpe.br/~nivan/) (UFPE)  
[Marcos Lage](http://www.ic.uff.br/~mlage/) (UFF)  
[Fabio Miranda](https://fmiranda.me) (UIC)  

## Citation

```
@ARTICLE{moreira2025curio,
  author={Moreira, Gustavo and Hosseini, Maryam and Veiga, Carolina and Alexandre, Lucas and Colaninno, Nicola and de Oliveira, Daniel and Ferreira, Nivan and Lage, Marcos and Miranda, Fabio},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics}, 
  title={Curio: A Dataflow-Based Framework for Collaborative Urban Visual Analytics}, 
  year={2025},
  volume={31},
  number={1},
  pages={1224-1234},
  doi={10.1109/TVCG.2024.3456353}
}

```

## License
Curio is MIT Licensed. Free for both commercial and research use.


## Acknowledgements
Curio and the Urban Toolkit have been supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF) (Awards [#2320261](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=2320261), [#2330565](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=2330565), and [#2411223](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=2411223)), Discovery Partners Institute (DPI), and IDOT.

Commit message:

Docker version. Moving frontend components to frontend folder.

README.md, after:

# Curio [![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-738ADB)](https://discord.gg/vjpSMSJR8r)

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/urban-toolkit/curio/blob/main/logo.png?raw=true" alt="Curio Logo" height="200"/></br>
  [<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.06139">Paper</a>] | [<a href="https://urbantk.org/curio">Website</a>]
</div>

## Overview

Curio is a framework for collaborative urban visual analytics that uses a dataflow model with multiple abstraction levels (code, grammar, GUI elements) to facilitate collaboration across the design and implementation of visual analytics components. The framework allows experts to intertwine preprocessing, managing, and visualization stages while tracking provenance of code and visualizations.

**Curio: A Dataflow-Based Framework for Collaborative Urban Visual Analytics**  
*Gustavo Moreira, Maryam Hosseini, Carolina Veiga, Lucas Alexandre, Nico Colaninno, Daniel de Oliveira, Nivan Ferreira, Marcos Lage, Fabio Miranda*  
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics ( Volume: 31, Issue: 1, January 2025)  
Paper: [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1109/TVCG.2024.3456353)], [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.06139)]

<div align="center">
  <video src="https://github.com/urban-toolkit/curio/assets/2387594/6d29bda8-5e94-4496-a4ae-fd55adff024f" />
</div>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/urban-toolkit/curio/blob/main/banner.jpg?raw=true" alt="Curio Use Cases" width="1000"/>
</p>

This project is part of the [Urban Toolkit ecosystem](https://urbantk.org), which includes [Curio](https://github.com/urban-toolkit/curio/) and [UTK](https://github.com/urban-toolkit/utk). Curio is a framework for collaborative urban visual analytics that uses a dataflow model with multiple abstraction levels to facilitate collaboration across the design and implementation of visual analytics components. UTK is a flexible and extensible visualization framework that enables the easy authoring of web-based visualizations through a new high-level grammar specifically built with common urban use cases in mind. 

## Key features
- Provenance-aware dataflow
- Modularized and collaborative visual analytics
- Support for 2D and 3D maps
- Linked data-driven interactions  
- Integration with [UTK](https://urbantk.org) and [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/)

## Usage and contributions
For detailed instructions on how to use the project, please see the [usage](docs/USAGE.md) document. A set of examples can be found [here](https://github.com/urban-toolkit/curio/tree/main/docs). 

🚀 Curio now supports a Docker-based setup for easier installation and orchestration of all components. See the [usage guide](docs/USAGE.md) for instructions on running Curio with Docker.

If you'd like to contribute, see the [contributions](docs/CONTRIBUTIONS.md) document for guidelines. For questions, join [UTK's Discord](https://discord.gg/vjpSMSJR8r) server.



## Core team

Gustavo Moreira (UIC)  
Leonardo Ferreira (UIC)  
[Maryam Hosseini](https://www.maryamhosseini.me/) (UC Berkeley)  
[Daniel de Oliveira](http://www2.ic.uff.br/~danielcmo/) (UFF)  
[Nivan Ferreira](https://www.cin.ufpe.br/~nivan/) (UFPE)  
[Marcos Lage](http://www.ic.uff.br/~mlage/) (UFF)  
[Fabio Miranda](https://fmiranda.me) (UIC)  

## Citation

```
@ARTICLE{moreira2025curio,
  author={Moreira, Gustavo and Hosseini, Maryam and Veiga, Carolina and Alexandre, Lucas and Colaninno, Nicola and de Oliveira, Daniel and Ferreira, Nivan and Lage, Marcos and Miranda, Fabio},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics}, 
  title={Curio: A Dataflow-Based Framework for Collaborative Urban Visual Analytics}, 
  year={2025},
  volume={31},
  number={1},
  pages={1224-1234},
  doi={10.1109/TVCG.2024.3456353}
}

```

## License
Curio is MIT Licensed. Free for both commercial and research use.


## Acknowledgements
Curio and the Urban Toolkit have been supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF) (Awards [#2320261](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=2320261), [#2330565](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=2330565), and [#2411223](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=2411223)), Discovery Partners Institute (DPI), and IDOT.
